<!-- TITLE: 101 - Feeling out a room -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Here is step 1 on the journey through lights -->

# What does this mean?
As per the standards doc, "feeling out a room" is fundamentally necessary for becoming a lighting board operator on our team. 

So what does this phrase mean? Well, every service we put on is full of moments. Any one of these moments call for a unique atmosphere in the room. When you walk into service during the middle of worship, it feels completely different than when you would walk in during annoucements, or a sermon. We use the lighting equipment we have to facilitate these feelings and enhance the atmosphere in the room.

# How is this done?
Before this question gets answered, let's establish a few terms that will be used throughout the rest of your TechArts career

| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Stage | The platform from where singers/preachers stand |
| House | The area of the room where the congregation sits |
| Front Light | Imaging standing on stage looking at the congregation. All of the light that is hitting your face is front light |
| House Lignt | If you are sitting in the house, the lights above your head that allow you to read are considered house lights |

-----

Front light and house light are the two most pivotal areas of lighting we have at CT. If you think about it, without them, services are much more difficult to facilitate. With them, you generate the foundation of creating an atmosphere in the room. To illustrate what was just stated, take a look at these examples below
> Let's say you shut off front light. You _may_ be able to see the vage shadows and outlines of people on stage. When you turn those lights back on, it's pretty easy to understand that you can see them. However, with front light on, you can now see their faces and their emotions. Those features allow members of the congretation to connect with those on stagee. This makes it that much easier to fall into the worship moment

> What would happen if they were all the way up during the most in
Let's walk through the flow of one of our services