<!-- TITLE: 201 - Terms and Defintions -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: The following theory are the building blocks for lighting at CT -->

[Back to Training](/lights/training)

# Key Terms
Before you actually begin to touch the board, it's necessary to learn some terms and theories that we use as we communicate.
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Fixture | Every physical light we have |
| Intensity | The strength of a light's output, usually denoted as a percentage |
| Beam | When we turn on a light, the _beam_ of light that we see |
# Fixture types
To start off, we split lights up into three main categories: [Conventional Fixtures](#conventional-fixtures), [LED Fixtures](#led-fixtures), [Moving Fixtures](#moving-fixtures)

## Conventional Fixtures
A conventional fixture is one that has one basic operation: Intensity. It can only turn on and off. We set them at whatever percentage we like and change them when necessary. That's all.

At CTG, our entire front light system is made up of conventional fixtures.

## LED Fixtures
Any light that is *not* conventional is considered intelligent. All of the LEDs we have are intelligent lights. What does this mean? LEDs have the capability of having their intensity adjusted, but it doesn't stop there. All of our LEDs can change color as well. Some of them can strobe and utilize special built in functions (like sound sensitivity)

We have a wide range of LEDs at all of our campuses. They are a powerful tool in establishing the atmosphere through color, intensity and sometimes other effects)

## Moving Fixtures
These are easily the most recognizable type of intelligent light. Any light that can move without the physical intervention of a person is considered a moving light. Moving is the only possiblity though. We have full control over intensity, color and strobe just like all the previous lights. In addition, we can also control gobos, iris, focus, and other functions. We'll get into those later, no need to define them now.

We have moving fixtures at all of our campuses. Each type is unique in the features that we can use and what it looks like when its intensity is at 100%.

# Beam types
Before moving on, another set of terms can be used to describe lights. Although we use these terms a little less, they are still good to know, as they help provide an understanding that will allow use to maximize the usage of the lights we have. They are: [Wash](#washes), [Spot](#spots), [Beam](#beams)

Each type of convential, LED and moving fixture falls into one of these categories. They two category groups are not exclusive to each other in any way. 
_For instance, there are conventional washes, LED washes and moving washes._

## Washes
A wash fixtures is one that has a beam that has no clearly defined edge. Another way to describe what it does is that it "throws" light at an area. In the image below, see how the wash light's beam is visble, but not sharp. When the beam lands on a wall, it will always have a fuzzy edge.
## Spots
Spot fixtures tend to look similar to washes except for one key distinction. With a wash we can make the beam sharp. When the beam lands on a surface, we can adjust a couple settings and make it so that the circle is clean, sharp and well-defined.
## Beams
Unfortunately, this is an instance where a term is used twice to mean two different things. In this instance, however, they are related. In most cases, context will allow us to determine which "beam" we are talking about.

Beam fixtures are similar to spot lights. Their beams stay sharp. The light remains sharp when it lands on a surface. The difference is that the a beam fixture's beam always stays "tight". It is comparable to a cylinder while the beam of a spot/wash fixture will resemble a cone when the light's intensity is up.

---

<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/lights/training-pages/202">Next: GrandMA is your friend</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>