<!-- TITLE: 202 - GrandMA is your Friend (Part 1) -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: At CT, we use the GrandMA lighting console as the primary desk to control lights -->

[Back to Training](/lights/training)

# Key Terms
Before we get started, let's establish some terminology that is needed to clearly understand what we are discussing

| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Channel | Each and every light is assigned a number. We refer to that number as the channel |

# Key ideas
**There's always more than one way**
One of the philosophies that the creators of the GrandMA developed is the idea that there is always more than one way to accomplish a task. The part to make sure you take away is that there isn't necessarily one right way to accomplish a task. For instance, there are at least 5 ways to turn on a light. Some are useful and some aren't depending on the situation. As time progresses, we'll cover most ways. it's up to the lighting board op to pick what works best at that time.

# GrandMA operation
## Turning on a light
Every light is assigned a channel number. To turn a light on, one can simply punch in the channel number AT the desired percentage and voila!
***CHANNEL 1 AT 100 ENTER***

This is cool, but we have over 100 lights at CTG and over 40 at CTG. Turning on one each one would take a long time. So let's turn on more than one
***CHANNEL 1 + 2 AT 100 ENTER***
***CHANNEL 1 THRU 5 AT 100 ENTER***

Awesome, now we can turn on any light in the room! What lights do we have? Well if we look at the right screen, there is a listing of all of the channels that can be selected.
Now, if the only lights we want to use were conventional lights, we can stop here. For LEDs and movers, though, let's keep reading.

---

<div style="display: inline-block"><a href="/lights/training-pages/201">Back: </a>
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/lights/training-pages/203g">Next: GrandMA is your friend (Part 3) - CTG</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/lights/training-pages/203b">Next: GrandMA is your friend (Part 3) - CTB</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>
</div>