<!-- TITLE: 203G - GrandMA is your Friend (Part 2) -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: This is a step through of all of our CTG fixtures -->

[Back to Training](/lights/training)

_Fair warning_. This is one of our longer articles. Take your time going through it though. There is a lot of useful information.
# Key Terms
| Term | Defintion |
| --- | --- |
| Pan | Rotation on the horizontal plane |
| Tilt | Rotaion on the vertical plane |
| Gobo | Imaging placing a stencil in front of a light and viewing the image on the other side |
| Iris | Similar to the iris of an eye. Controls how much light escapes the fixture |
| Focus | When a light is focused, the edge of the beam on the surface it is projected onto is sharpened |
| Frost | This can be thought of as "fuzzing" the beam |
| Lamp | What is commonly known as a "bulb." It is _the_ source of light for the fixture |

## Color Mixing Theory Intro
This is one of the foundational concepts in lighting. Many intelligent fixtures are capable of color mixing. What does that mean? Well in lighting, there are 3 primary colors: <span style="color:red; font-weight:bold">Red</span>, <span style="color:green; font-weight:bold">Green</span>, <span style="color:blue; font-weight:bold">Blue</span>. These colors can be mixed togethert different ratios to create over 16,000,000 colors. Take a look at these examples:
**MAKE RED RGB**
**MAKE GREEN RGB**
**MAKE BLUE RGB**
**MAKE MAGENTA RGB**
**MAKE AMBER RGB**
**MAKE WHITE RGB**
**MAKE BLACK RGB**

<span style="color:red; font-weight:bold">Red</span>, <span style="color:green; font-weight:bold">Green</span>, <span style="color:blue; font-weight:bold">Blue</span> can be mixed to make up most colors imaginable. However, <span style="color:red; font-weight:bold">R</span><span style="color:green; font-weight:bold">G</span><span style="color:blue; font-weight:bold">B</span> is not the only color mixing stragety. It is an additive color mixing strategy. There is, in fact, a subtractive color mixing strategy that is based off of the secondary colors <span style="color:cyan; font-weight:bold">Cyan</span>, <span style="color:magenta; font-weight:bold">Magenta</span>, and <span style="color:#e6e600; font-weight:bold">Yellow</span>. <span style="color:cyan; font-weight:bold">C</span><span style="color:magenta; font-weight:bold">M</span><span style="color:#e6e600; font-weight:bold">Y</span> works the same as <span style="color:red; font-weight:bold">R</span><span style="color:green; font-weight:bold">G</span><span style="color:blue; font-weight:bold">B</span>, however it's values tend to be the opposite. Look at these examples below:
**MAKE RED CMY**
**MAKE GREEN CMY**
**MAKE BLUE CMY**
**MAKE MAGENTA CMY**
**MAKE AMBER CMY**
**MAKE WHITE CMY**
**MAKE BLACK CMY**

Both color mixing strategies can be used in our console. It is up to the board operator to decide what they like best.

# GrandMA Operation
## The smart screen
Before we get to play with the actual lights, we need to understand one particular screen that allows us to utilize the full capability of each fixture. It's called the smart screen and it looks like this:
**INSERT SMART IMAGE HERE**

If this screen is not visible on any of the three screens, then move over to the rightmost touchscreen and tap the top button as shown below:
**INSERT SMART IMAGE BUTTON PRESS HERE**

When you select channel one:
**CHANNEL 1 AT 100**
This will pop up:
**INSERT CHANNEL 1 SMART SCREEN**

As you can see, this conventional light's dimmer attribute pops up. If we tap it, it becomes adustable with the wheel directly below:
**INSERT ENCODER WHEEL ADJUSTING DIMMER**

As you'll see below, this is the page where we can truly dig in and play with some lights.

## LED Tape
This is our LED Tape. It's pretty easy to find if you look at the stage:
**INSERT LED TAPE IMAGE**

Now let's go select them:
**CHANNELS 301 THRU 330 AT FULL**

Let's look at what pops up on the smart screen
**INSERT SMART SCREEN LED TAPE**

There are now two fields in the smart screen. The same dimmer as existed before is there, but there's a new one ColorMix. This is what you may see:
**INSERT COLORMIX BOTTOM BAR**
If you don't, then tap color mix, and you'll see this:
**INSERT COLORPICKER BOTTOM BAR**
If, you see _HSB_, just tap it and RGB or CMY should show up. Once it's visible you can either drag the values of each color up and down on screen, or use the encoder wheels coresponding to each color. See below:
**INSERT COLOR PICKER DRAG RED**
**INSERT COLOR PICKER ENCODER WHEEL GREEN**
## Opti Tri Pars
The next fixture we will examine are the _OptiTriPars_, referred to in the console as (_OptiRGBs_), and commonly known as _Optis_.
**INSERT OPTIS IMAGE**

Now let's go and select them:
**CHANNELS 101 THRU 110 AT FULL**

Let's take a look at what pops up on the smart screen:
**INSRT SMART SCREEN OTPIS**

Even though these are LEDS just like the LED Tape lights, they have a few more "fun" features. Dim and ColorMix work the same as before. The new ones we see are Beam1 and Control. Beam1 has a sub option strb: 
**INSERT SMART SCREEN OPTIS STROBE ENCODER WHEEL**
This stands for strobe. It makes the fixtures blink on and off. As we rotate the encoder wheel clockwise, the speed of the strobe increases.

Next there's control:
**INSERT SMART SCREEN OPTIS CONTROL MACRO**
Here, there are a few fun built in features that the fixture is capable of producing.
## VL 2Ks
At this point, we know about all the LEDs in our CTG sanctuary. Now we can move on to the movers. The first ones we'll look at are the _Vari-Lite 2000 Washes_, commonly known and referred to in the console as _2Ks_.
**INSERT 2K'S IMAGE**

Now Let's go and select them. Well before that.... it's tiresome trying to remember all the numbers for all these lights. Seeing as there's more than one way to do the same thing, let's look at another way of selecting some lights: Our groups page! If this screen is not visible on any of the three screens, then move over to the leftmost touchscreen and tap the top button as shown below:
**INSERT GROUPS PAGE WITH HARDKEY**
Here, we have all the intelligent fixtures (LED and Moving) that we can play with. Let's select the 2Ks and continue:
**INSERT IMAGE OF SELECTED 2KS**

Let's take a look at what pops up on the smart screen:
**INSERT SMART SCREEN 2K'S**

It's pretty easy to see that these fixtures are more fully feature loaded than the LEDs. Simply put, this fixtures do more things. ~~FINISH DOC AFTER GETTING SMART SCREEN PIC OF ALL 2K STUFF~~
## Infinitys
The next mover in the arsenal is the _Coemar Inifinity ACL M_, commonly known and referred to in the console as _Infinity_.
**INSERT INFINITS IMAGE**

Now let's go and select them:
**INSERT IMAGE OF SELECTED INFINITYS GROUPS**

Let's take a look at what pops up on the smart screen:
**INSERT SMART SCREEN INFINITIS**

~~FINISH DOC AFTER GETTING SMART SCREEN PIC OF ALL INFINITY STUFF~~
## CMYs
The last mover and fixture (phew that took a while) that we can play with is the _Studio Spot 575 CMY_, commonly known and referred to in the console as _CMY_.
**INSERT CMYS IMAGE**

Now let's go and select them:
**INSERT IMAGE OF SELECTED CMYS GROUPS**

Let's take a look at what pops up on the smart screen:
**INSERT CMYS SMART SCREEN INFINITIS**
~~FINISH DOC AFTER GETTING SMART SCREEN PIC OF ALL CMY STUFF~~
