<!-- TITLE: 301 - Cues and Lists and everything else -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: After completing this tutorial, you should have everything you need to be able to "do lights" -->
[Back to Training](/lights/training)
# Key Terms
| Term | Defintion |
| --- | --- |
| Cue | a recorded "scene" in side the lighting console |
| Cuelist | as the name states, a list of cues (even if it is only one cue) |
| Fader | On the console, there are levers that can be slid up and down. Cuelists (and other things ;) ) can be assigned to them |
| Button | Not to be confused with the generic "button," this corresponds with a cuelist that has been assigned to any of the buttons to the right of the faders |
| Exectuor | Related to faders/buttons, but not quite. While faders/buttons are physical levers/buttons, executors are what you see on screen. Executors can change, faders cannot) |
| Page | There can be multiple pages of faders and buttons where the same physical fader/button assumes different roles depending on the page number |

# Cues
At this point, we've learned to play with all of our fixtures and utilize the features that make them unique. It would be very cumbersome, however, to attempt to do this during service. We'd have to press a lot of buttons in a very small amount of time. As we've seen with lighting board ops already, it looks like they press a bunch of buttons, but it really isnt _that_ many. How is this so? Through the magic of cues. Cues allow us to record any paramater of any light we adjust. That's all we need to know about creating them though. Let's learn how to use them. At the bottom of each screen, you'll see this:
**INSERT IMAGES OF FADERS** or **INSERT IMAGE OF BUTTONS**
If you don't see either of these, press one of these buttons to make them appear:
** EXECUTOR FADER/BUTTON +/-**

Each of those are executors. We are going to focus on the yellow ones. Each and every yellow object seen on any page (both buttons and faders) is a cuelist of some sorts. For instance there is a fader on page one that controls stage lights. If we move the fader from bottom to top, we will see lights on stage begin to turn on. 
**INSERT IMAGE OF STAGE FADER PUSHED UP** 
At this point a cue has been activated. The lighting console is capable of calling up multiple cues simultaneously
**INSERT IMAGE OF STAGE / HOUSE FADERS UP**
This is how we basically control most of the elements on stage without selecting each one and manually adjusting it.

# Cuelists
We definitely have _not_ reached the limit to cues just yet. Each fader we've brought up has been associated with one cue. The true is, however, that fader has been associated with a _cuelist_ that contains one cue. Cuelists can contain any number of cues. Some of the cuelists we use only need one cue, while others need multiple cues. So the next questions we can as are as follows: '_How can we access any of the multiple cuelists?_' and '_How can we access the multiple cues in any of these lists?_' Well there is an area of buttons (not executor buttons) near the faders. One of these buttons is labeled **SELECT**:
**INSERT IMAGE OF SELECT BUTTONS**
If we tap **SELECT** so that it's lit up, and then tap any executor button or fader that is assigned to a cuelist, it will be highlighted green and appear on the left screen
**INSERT SELECTED FADER AND CUELIST VIEW**
**INSERT SELECTED BUTTON AND CUELIST VIEW**
Now that we selected our cuelist, we can actually travel between cues using these big yellow buttons
**INSERT GO+ GO- PAUSE BUTTONS**
However, if we want to jump to a later cue, we can simply use the **GOTO** button combined with the cue number that we'd like to use
**INSERT GOTO CUE 21 ENTER**
_Note: The __goto__ button is located in the area of buttons above the number pad_

---

At this point, we've got enough knowledge to begin to learn how to run a service, so let's go!
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/lights/training-pages/302">Next: How do we "do lights"?</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>