<!-- TITLE: 302 - How do we "do lights"? -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: "Doing lights" is a term we'll hear around here. What's it mean -->
[Back to Training](/lights/training)

# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Jumpback | The video graphics placed on the middle screen |
# Back to the feels
We've spent a lot of time on this journey learning about the lighting console. While it is a fantastic piece of hardware, it is only a tool that we use to accomplish the greater goal. For that reason, now that we're comfortable with the lighting console and terminology, we're going to learn about what it takes to make a service feel appropriate. So let's take a step back to [101](lights/training-pages/101) and let's spend the rest of this article visualizing some examples of what we'd like each of the elements of our service to look like.

## Walk-in
This elment takes place before service. There is a look already programmed into the board, but if we had to create our own look, we could keep house lights up, front light down, bring the optis up in <span style="color: cyan; font-weight:bold; background-color:grey;">&nbsp;Cyan&nbsp;</span>, bring up the LED tape in <span style="background-color: grey; color: white; font-weight: bold">&nbsp;White&nbsp;</span> and a gobo in the infiniti's while they're tilted into the house just low enough where they won't hit anyone's eyes.
## Worship
As one of the most emotional parts of the service, the colors of the lights place a large role in enhancing the atmosphere that worship creates. With that in mind, the house lights will be low, front light will be up, all of our intelligent fixtures will be active. Every group of fixtures has a purpose that works towards enhancing the atmosphere. Therefore, each one is setup to fulfill that purpose.
## Announcments
This element of the service calls for attention to be directed towards the host and the screens. Therefore, house lights are turned up, front light is up, conventional back light is up, and any scenic intelligent fixtures are up.
## Special
This is often the most creative section of the service. Determining how we use the lights truly depends on what the special element is. 
> For a song, it is similar to worship,

> For a skit, lights change according to scene

> For a poem, a colors and gobos are picked such that they match the mood of the poem

## Sermon
The difference between how we light the sermon and announcments is that the color of the scenic fixtures usually matches that of the sermon series graphic

# How we do it
For many of the elements of the service, we have pre-created "looks" that we use simply because they allow us to insure they stay the same no matter who is operating the console.
## Walk-in, Annoucments, Sermon, Video
There is a cue for each one of these elements located on page 1 of the executor buttons.
**INSERT LOOKS BUTTONS**
## Special
On page 1 of the faders, fader 5 is dedicated to the special. Every week it is overwritten with new cues that are necessary for that service's special
## Worship
This element of service is usally the most complex (and fun) when it comes to how we do things. We work with multiple cuelists (among other things) to make worship look appropriate. On page 2 of the executor buttons, the first 10 buttons each correspond to a separate cuelist. Each cuelist contains at least 10 different color cues. We can find what colors are in this list by calling up the WP view which is on the screen right above these buttons
**INSERT IMAGE OF WP SCREEN**
Based off the the song and jumpback, we choose the appropriate color cuelist and then cue and tell it to the producer. By default tapping on any of these executor buttons selects them. Once selected, we can see which cues it contains
**INSERT CUELIST OF WP LIST**

 ---

This how we setup lights so that we "do lights" in such a way that adds to the "feel" that each element calls for. Next we'll actually go through a sample service and see each one of these in practice.

<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/lights/training-pages/303">Next: Sample service flow</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>