<!-- TITLE: 303 - Sample weekend flow -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Here we'll go through the entire weekend process from confirm on PCO to Shutdown -->

# PCO Confirm
After we've confirmed on PCO, we'll have access to the service. It's recommended is that we listen to the songs at least once before attending the rehearsal. It prepares us for new songs and subtly allows us to begin to determine how we are going to use the lights to enhance the atmosphere that the song will create. When we login and view the service we'll see this:
**INSERT PCO SERVICE GRAPHIC**
At the of the window top right, we'll click REHEARSE (make sure this is right)
**INSERT MEDIA PLAYER IMAGE**
_Note: this workflow may be slightly different on the app, but terms should still be the same_

These are the songs that we'll have for our sample service:
**INSERT SAMPLE SERVICE IMAGE**
If you'd like to take a listen:
**INSERT SAMPLE AUDIO OF EACH SONG**

# Thursday Night Rehearsal
## Dream Team Huddle
We all gather together as a team and pray over our rehearsal
## Run through prep
We take this time to communicate with the producer and the media team and setup our color cues based off of jumpbacks. We also make sure the special looks and cues are conveyed to the technical producer. Any spare time is left for playing around with the board and learning some cool stuff.
## Run through
Here we actually simulate the service and all of its transitions. It allows us to practice all of the songs and ensure that the colors we picked feel as good as they may look.
# Sunday
## Dream Team Huddle
We all gather as a team and pray over the rest of the day
## Sound check
Musicians and singers warm-up / rehearse while the audio technicians make final adjustments. We use this opportunity to make sure that everything we planned on Thursday night still looks good
## Walk-in
We activate the walk-in look and prep for the beginning of service. When the countdown starts, we usually lower the intensity of the movers and transition into service
** INSERT VIDEO OF WALKIN / COUNTDOWN and BOARD OP**
## Worship
After we transition into worship, we start "doing lights!"
### Song 1
**INSERT VIDEO OF SONG 1 + BOARDOP**
### Song 2
**INSERT VIDEO OF SONG 2 + BOARDOP**
### Song 3
**INSERT VIDEO OF SONG 3 + BOARDOP**
## Annoucments
When we transition out of worship, we activate the host  look
### Video
If there are any videos, we activate that look and then go back to the host look after we finish
## Special
Then we run our special, which is ususally easy because everything we need has already been programmed into cues
## Sermon
After we transition out of the special, we go into our sermon look
### Offering
At the end of the sermon there are usually more annoucments, followed by offering. We tend to leave the sermon look up
## Close out song
Lastly before going back to the walk-in look, we recreate a small version of the worship experience as everyone is dismissed
## Walk-out
After it's all said and done, we reset and activate the walk-in look for walk-out
