<!-- TITLE: 103 - Stage Display -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Once we get through this, we'll understand how what we do affects those on stage as well -->

# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Clock | A countdown clock visible to those on stage that indicates how much time is left in the segment / video |
# Stage Display
There is a secondary output from ProPresenter that is not visible to all members of the congregation. It is used to assist the singers with lyrics and speakers with verses. It also provides the ability to display the current time of day and time left in a segment of the service. We can even send messages to those on stage if we need to!
**INSERT IMAGE OF STAGE DISPLAY**

There is a way to see what is currently on the stage display. Let's hover over the preview screen in ProPresenter. The _Toggle Preview/Stage DIsplay_ button will appear and allow us to swap the main screen and stage display.
**INSERT GIF OF STAGE DISPLAY / PREVIEW TOGGLE**

We use multiple stage display layouts in ProPresenter. They are tailored for different parts of the service. Let's go through our 4 standard ones and see what content they offer:
## Worship
**INSERT WORSHIP STAGE DISPLAY**
## Host
**INSERT HOST STAGE DISPLAY**
## Sermon
**INSERT SERMON STAGE DISPLAY**
## Video
**INSERT VIDEO STAGE DISPLAY**
# Clocks
In ProPresenter, we can utilize clocks to help make sure that our service remains on time.
*Now this isn't a guarantee of timeliness, but it gives a sense of comfort that everyone is aware of these close*

How do we access them though? Well at the top of the ProPresenter screen there's a button called _Clock_." When we click it this appears:
**INSERT CLOCKS IMAGE**

We use multiple clocks here at CT. It allows us to setup all of our service countdowns once and just trigger them during service. However, they usually aren't on the stage display at the same time. Each stage display has its own clock in the upper corner. Their labels match the labels of the clocks we have here. So when the worship stage display is active, the worship clock is visible and the countdown can be started.

There are multiple types of clocks in ProPresenter, as shown below:
**INSERT EACH TYPE OF CLOCK**
We mostly use the countdown clock, as it is most effective for us in service. In order to set the time, we can click on the time and begin typing. To start the clock we can simply click the start button next to the clock.
**INSERT GIF OF CLOCK BEING STARTED**
# Stage Messages
Stage messages are used much less frequently than clocks. However, they are still important to know. At the bottom of the host stage display, we can see a rectangle dedicated to messages:
**INSERT BOTTOM OF HOST STAGE DISPLAY**

At the top of the screen there's a button called _Stage Messages_ (not to be confused with _Messages_). When we click that button, this appears:
**INSERT STAGE MESSAGES BUTTON**

We can then type our message and click send. Once we do that, this will happen:
**INSERT STAGE DISPLAY FLASHING**