<!-- TITLE: 104 - Media Theory -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Let's learn about some topics that'll take us to the next level -->
[Back to Training](/media/training)
# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Timing | The length of time that passes before or after a slide or lyric is put on screen when it is said in service |
| Verse | |
| Pre-chorus | |
| Chorus | |
| Bridge | |
| Tag | |
| Interlude | |
# Timing
Being a media tech is definitely more than just ProPresenter. It's our job to use this tool to best enhance the service, limiting as much distraction as possible. Timing is a key part of that. What do we mean by that though? Well it'll probably be easier to go through examples:
## Worship
For instance, our worship team rotates the songs they sing over the course of months, gradually introducing new songs into worship. Sometimes these songs are easy to pickup, and other times they can be rather wordy. Our job as media techs is to make sure that everyone can follow along with the lyrics for the song. Let's take a look at the video below and see if we can follow along:
**INSERT VIDEO OF REALLY LATE LYRICS**
Yea, that was pretty bad. Let's take a look at an example that's much more subtle.
**INSERT VIDEO OF SLIGHTLY LATE LYRICS**
What was wrong with that? Well, the lyrics seemed to be coming up as soon as that line started. That doesn't really give someone the opportunity to prepare to sing along with the next line. Take a look at this last one:
**INSERT VIDEO OF GOOD TIMING LYRICS**
Now this one is pretty good! It's not sing along with the music even though the song is pretty much unknown.

Timing is key to delivering a good experience!
## Sermon
How is timing important here? Well, the sermon is the most important part of the service. God's message is being delivered through whoever is speaking on stage. Therefore, we need to make sure that whenever they reference one of their slides, it is put up in a timely manner. Take a look at this:
**INSERT VIDEO OF LATE VERSES**
The speaker was practically finished with the first verse before they were put on screen. That's not really helpful as it doesn't let a member of our congregation follow along with ease. The following video shows an instance where it's much easier to follow along.
**INSERT VIDEO OF ON TIME VERSES**

Timing is key to delivering a good experience!
# Music
Since we are media techs, we are probably going to experience running lyrics at one point or another. With that said, it becomes **a lot** easier if we understand how music works. The key musical terms one may hear are defined above, so let's move learn how they can apply to most songs. Here's an example
**INSERT SONG WITH LYRICS PLAYING (COLORS FOR PARTS OF SONG)**
**INSERT SONG LYRICS WITH COLORS FOR PARTS OF SONG**
Being able to identify what part of a song words belong to is not an easy task. It taks pracitce and time. 
## Practice
Whenever you are listening to **_any_** kind of music, simply try and pick out the parts of the song. The more you do it the easier it'll become.

---

Right now, we can probably run a service on Sunday. Pretty simple, eh? Well let's go _shadow_ someone and watch them do it! After that, we can get to the real nitty gritty