<!-- TITLE: 201 - Creation -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Here is where the creation juices shall begin to flow -->

[Back to Training](/media/training)
# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Document | The _object_ in ProPresenter that contains slides |
| Playlist | Collection of documents grouped together |
| Media Bin | Storage location for video and image media |

# Documents
Unfortunately, ProPresenter didn't come fully setup for us. We had to build it up little by little. As new songs are sung and sermons preached, we need to create new documents to store them. This actually happens on a weekly basis, so let's take a look at how to begin. On the left side of the screen, under the preview view, is the document pane. Here we can create a document by simply hitting the **+**:
**INSERT IMAGE OF LEFT PANE**

Once we name it, it will create a document with an empty slide:
**INSERT EMPTY DOCUMENT PAGE**

In the next tutorial, we'll play with the slides themselves a little more, but for now let's continue on.
# Playlists
It's pretty easy to find a document in the document pane. All we have to do is search. However, on a Sunday, it would add unnecessary pressure to try and find during the service. For this reason, playlists were implemented. They exist in the pane just below the documents. They are also created by simply hitting the **+**:
**INSERT IMAGE OF PLAYLIST PANE**

Once we name it, it will provide an empty playlist for us to fill. We can simply drag any documents we want into this playlist:
**INSERT GIF ADDED DOCUMENT TO PLAYLIST**

# Media
The last thing we'll go over is media. There are a few ways to import media. We can choose whichever way we like. However, let's add them to the media bin. The media bin is located at the bottom of the screen. Click this button if it's not visible:
**INSERT BOTTOM OF SCREEN WITH MEDIA BIN BUTTON HIGHLIGHTED**

We can select the bin we want to import into and hit the **+**.
**INSERT ADD IMAGE TO BIN**

---

Next we'll learn how slides really work and, in doing so, learn how to add media to slides as well.

<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/media/training-pages/202">Next: Editing</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>