<!-- TITLE: 202 - Editing -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: After this, we'll be able to create anything, anytime, anywhere -->

[Back to training](/media/training)
# Key Terms
# Slides
Slides are the fundamental foundation of ProPresenter. Without them, we really wouldn't have a use for this software. With that in mind, let's learn how to manage slides. To start off, creating a slide is really simple. Just like documents, playlists and media, all we have to do is hit the **+** in the bottom left area of the slide area. A blank slide will appear for us to manipulate. Let's right click the slide and take a look at the options available
**INSERT SLIDE RIGHT CLICK MENU**

## Edit Slide
First let's click on Edit Slide. This is the screen that pops up.
**INSERT EDIT SLIDE SCREEN**

It's the most powerful editing screen in ProPresenter. We can do virtually anything to our slides. We usually spend some time in here when we have a new song or sermon. At the bottom left of the editing area, there is a little **+** button. This can be used to easily add a new slide into the presentation. There is also a **show slide** button in the same area. It allows us to put the slide up on screen without leaving the editor.
On the right hand side of the screen, there's a column with 6 different tabs. This is where the customizability of a slide really lies. For most purposes, we mainly use the 5 tab, which is the text formatting tab:
**INSERT TEXT FORMATTING TAB**

We can change font, color, and alignment if ncessary. Even though we don't really use the other tabs regularly, let's quickly define how they work.
| Tab | Function |
| --- | --- |
| | Here we can change resolution, background color and presentation category (song, sermon, etc...) | 
| | These are slide properties that are specific only to this slide. |
| | The build properties let us adjust transitions for this slide specifically |
| | Object properties are useful for when we put anything other than text on a slide |
| | The image/videos property tab lets us ensure that media files look nice in our presentation. Usually when they're sent to us, they look nice already, but this is here just in case |

## Quick Edit
Sometimes we catch a typo/mistake during service. There may not be enough time to open the full editor, make the change, and close before the next slide is put up. In that case, we need a quick option to edit the slide and continue along. Luckily, ProPresenter provides us with the quick edit option. In the image above it's visible directly below the edit slide button in the right click menu. When we click on it, our slide will swell and become editable:
**INSERT QUICK EDIT SCREEN**

We are now able to type our fix and still change slides (if need be). Once we're done, we can click the **x** and continue along. Let's take a look at this in practice:
**INSERT GIF OF QUICK EDIT WHILE CHANGING SLIDE**

## Reflow Editor
The last type of editor ProPresenter offers is the Reflow Editor. It is not as powerful as the full editor view, but what it lacks in power it surely makes up in convience. Whenever we insert a new song/scripture into ProPresenter, we almost never type it in word by word. We use the computer's copy-paste function. The issue that arises here is that ProPresenter doesn't make the distinction of slides for us. Therefore, the entire blob of copied text we paste will go right into one slide:
**INSERT ALL TEXT IN ONE SLIDE**

In order to separate text, we have to do a lot of scrolling and navigating to get to the part we want to push to the next slide and then repeat again for the next one. This can be tedious and a slight waste of time. Let's call up the reflow editor and see how to do it there instead. If we hit **CONTROL + R** *(INSERT MAC KEYS)*, let's see what pops up:
**INSERT REFLOW EDITOR**

We now have a view that let's us see all the text on all the slides in one section. We can make edits to these slides and even do some formatting if we need to. Let's take a look at how to create a song using the reflow editor:
[Reflow Editor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EXGUb_3r1wo){.youtube}
*This video is brought to us by the creators of ProPresenter*

# Media
ProPresenter is not just text and slides. We can use it to play videos and show images as well. In fact, we do it on a weekly basis. 
## Foreground vs Background
Let's take a look at our Video/Image bin. This is the location for all of our media as it enters ProPresenter. We keep it here as a centralized storage place so that it's easy to find at any point:
**INSERT MEDIA BIN**

There are two default categories in ProPresenter for Videos and Images. They are foreground and background. Let's image the ProPresenter output screen as being made up of 2 layers. The background is the layer furthest away from the viewer. The foreground is closer to the view and can be though of as being "on top" or "in front" of the background. Our standard is that all images and videos that have text layered on top of them are considered backgrounds (such as jumpbacks). All videos and images that stand alone (videos and PSAs) are foregrounds. Why do these distinctions exist? Shouldn't all media be a background? Yes that is definitely possible, but the beneifits of distinguishing the two categories definitely outweigh the simplicity of just one. Let's take a look at the key differences between how ProPresenter treats backgrounds and foregrounds:
| Backgrounds | Foregrounds |
| --- | --- |
| Plays behind slide content | Plays in front of (replaces) slides and media |
| Stretches to fill the screen | Scaled to maintain the cue’s aspect ratio |
| Automatically loops at the end | Automatically stops at the end |

## Media to slide
Sometimes we need to add media to a slide. This is quite easy in fact. First we need to make sure that the presentation we want to add it to has an empty slide. Then we simply drag it from our media bin to the presentation as follows:
**INSERT DRAG MEDIA TO PRESENTATION**
## Media Properties
Sometimes we have the perfect background for a song, except for one issue (Maybe it's color doesn't match the song, it's just too fast, it's too long, etc). Here are where media properties shine. We can make modifications to the images and videos that we are using in our presentation. If modified in the presentation, it has no effect on the original video in the media bin, so we don't have to worry about ruining how other songs look. When we right click on a slide that has and image or video, there is an option called Media Properties:
**INSERT MEDIA RIGHT CLICK**

If we click on it a window opens up with 3 tabs:
**INSERT MEDIA PROPERTIES WINDOW**

Here's what they do:
| Property | Function |
| --- | --- |
| | The info tab shows us information about the image or video and lets us change how it's rendered on screen (no need to worry about this ever) |
| | The properties tab lets us flip the image or video, change its volume or even adjust tis speed |
| | The effects tab lets us play with the image or video by changing various characteristics. Each effect is different, so it's encourage to play with them and see what they can do |
**INSERT SCREENSHOTS ABOVE**

Using the last 2 tabs, we can make any media work with the atmosphere of any element of a service.

---

We're all done creating slides and media now. Let's take a look at some more tools PP has to offer to make our jobs quicker and smoother.
