<!-- TITLE: 203 - Grouping -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Let's look at some groups (they aren't just pretty colors) -->

[Back to Training](/media/training)

This will be a rather short article, but definitely useful!
# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Arrangement | The organization of different blocks of a song (ex. Verse - Chorus - Verse - Chorus - Bridge ) |
# Grouping
Remember back to our [104 - Media Theory](/media/training-pages/104) article. We learned about the different parts of a song. We can apply that knowledge to grouping! Let's take a look at one of our songs:
**INSERT OH SING**

Where does the verse end? Where does the chorus start? When is the bridge? All of these are valid questions. Let's take a look at the slides after we group them:
**INSERT OH SING WITH GROUPS**

It's much easier to distinguish these parts of the song now! In order to add these groups, we can right click and find the groups sub-menu. Available are all the groups we can use for any song. Once we choose one, it will make every slide after that fall into the same group. In order to change groups for the next part of the song, we simply find the first slide of that part, and change its group!
**INSERT GIF ADDING 2 GROUPS TO OH SING**

Once the groups for our entire song are setup, we can take a look at arrangements. These take groups to the next level.
# Arrangements
If we look on PCO, there are attachments for each song. One of these attachments is the arrangement (or roadmap) for the song. Our worship team uploads them each week as a guide for how they plan to sing each song. It is _usually_ accurate, however sometimes the plan changes. There's no way to predict is, so we use the arrangement given for our song. How does this relate to ProPresenter? Well it ties directly to the groups we created before. At the top right of the window, we can find the arrangements button:
**INSERT WINDOW ARRANGEMENTS BUTTON HIGHLIGHTED**

When we click it, this bar appears:
**INSERT TOP OF EDITOR ARRANGEMENT WINDOW**

Let's click the little gear symbol and create a new arrangment. We'll name it 4/22/2018. Another bar will pop up directly under the master arrangment:
**INSERT TOP OF EDITOR WITH NEW ARRANGEMENT**

Now looking at the roadmap on PCO, we can see that the worship team plans to do the first verse twice, then the chorus, and then bridge
**INSERT ROADMAP PCO**

Let's setup our arrangment to reflect that simply by dragging the pieces around. It'll end up looking like this:
**INSERT EDITOR WINDOW WITH NEW ARRANGED**

We now have our song planned and ready to go. Why would we go through all this trouble instead of just copying and pasting? Well there are a couple reasons, but let's let this video below explain:

[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jL9G_MD1Vb4){.youtube}
*This video is brought to us by the creators of ProPresenter*

---

Well we now know how to move things around easily. Next let's simplify text formatting into a few clicks.
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/media/training-pages/204">Next: Templates</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>