<!-- TITLE: 204 - Templates -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: 3 Clicks and a slide changes forever -->

[Back to Training](/media/training)

# Key terms
No new terms this time!
# Templates
## What are they?
As we mentioned, one of our core values is sweating the small stuff. Details matter in creating an atmosphere of worship for our congregation. With that said, both of those values apply directly to ProPresenter slides. We need to make sure that our song lyrics look the same between songs. We need to make sure that our sermon text looks good on its background. There are a few ways to do so  including opening up the editor for each presentation, and adjust the font. There is, however, a much easier way that involves fewer clicks. At the top right of the window is a button called **Templates**:
**INSERT SCREENSHOT TEMPLATES**

Let's navigate to sermon and click on the first template:
**INSERT GIF OF TEMPLATE BEING APPLIED**

Within 3 clicks, our presentation has been completely reformatted to what we need!
## How do we edit them?
Sometimes our template needs a small tweak. Well luckily it's really easy to change. It'll look quite familiar actually. Let's go ahead and find our sermon template group. Once there, we can click "Edit Template Group":
**INSERT SCREENSHOT EDIT TEMPLATE GROUP**

This opens up a very familiar screen. It is, in fact, an editor:
**INSERT TEMPLATE EDITOR**

This editor behaves just like the one we're used to, however its results are slightly different. Let's make some changes!
**INSERT TEMPLATE EDITOR WITH WEIRD TEMPLATE CHANGES**

Editing the slides in this editor doesn't have any instant visual effect on any of the slides in our presentations. When we finish and close this editor, it remembers all of the formatting we did. So let's go on and close it. Our presentation remained unchanged, even we edited the same template that was applied before. Once we reapply the new template, all of the slides will change:
**INSERT GIF TO NEW TEMPLATE**

It is indeed this simple! Let's keep templates in mind as we go forward

---

Enough with the big screen, next let's dig a little bit deeper into the confidence monitor.
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/media/training-pages/205">Next: Stage Display</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>