<!-- TITLE: 301 - How do we "do media"? -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Get through this and we're pretty much all done learning! -->

On thursday nights, our entire team gathers with the music ministry and we run through our Sunday service. It gives us a chance to work out any bugs that may appear. All the technicians who are scheduled to serve on Sunday are required to be present on the preceding Thursday.
# Get Ready
Before we arrive on a Thursday, we should check Planning Center. We examine the flow and listened to each song at least once. Upon arrival on Thursday, we:
1. Open up ProPresenter and create a playlist for the coming Sunday:
**INSERT EMPTY PLAYLIST**
2. Use Planning Center to verify that each song is present and apply song template, if necessary:
**INSERT SONGS IN PLAYLIST**
3. Create arrangements for each song and name them using this format *MM / DD - SONG*:
**INSERT ARRANGEMENT NAME SAVE**
4. Add our timer and stage display cues to the first song
5. Using PCO, add the PSA document and verify that all announcements are present. Any unused announcment are removed from the document. Any new announcements are added into the document from the image/media bin
**INSERT GIF ADDING PSA FROM MEDIA BIN**
6. Using PCO, create a new document for each video that is to be played and add that video to the document from the image / media bin
7. Create a sermon document and name it using this format: *SPEAKER Sermon*:
**INSERT SERMON DOC NAMED**
7. Add sermon stage display and timer cue to first slide
8. Add sermon text to the document (if available) and apply *Full Screen* sermon template

This is what we'll have in the end:
**INSERT SUNDAY PLAYLIST**

# Get Set
At this point we are ready to confer with the technical producer. Together we:

9. Go through each song, select an appropriate jumpback and color scheme, and add them to the first slide of the song
10. Go through each announcement and verify that the image is correct.
11. Check that the sermon text is legible in the document view. _IFF_ the font needs to change to improve legibility, make sure the change is written on the wall.

# Go!
At this point we a ready for Sunday! However, practice makes perfect! For this reason, after we're all done we reconvene with the rest of our tech team and worship team. We all check the flow one last time and then begin our service. Let's take a look:
**INSERT VIDEO OF FULL SERVICE WHERE SPEEDUPS HAPPEN WHEN PP IS NOT USED**
**MAYBE USE HEADSET CHATTER FOR AUDIO**