<!-- TITLE: 101 - What do we use? -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Let's take a hot moment and learn about our tool -->
[Back to training](/video/training)
# Key Terms
| Term | Defintion |
| --- | --- |
| Camcorder | the _technical_ term for video camera |
| Camera shot | the image that the camera is currently capturing |
| Video Director | The team member who decides what camera shot makes it on screen |
# Sony NX5
In order to capture video we use High Definition camcorders. The camera we use is called a Sony HXR-NX5U NXCAM. All of our cameras are the same model:
**INSERT NX5 PIC**

We currently use 3 of these cameras on a weekly basis. There's a fourth, but it only comes out if we need it.

# Some logistics
Before we get into the nitty gritty of _how_ we use the cameras, let's get some basics out of the way. 

Our video director decides what shot goes on screen. In doing so, they communicate to each of us on camera so that we can get the shots we need. Although we all know each other, our communication is standardize, therefore, we don't use names to talk during the service. Each camera is given a number (based off of the input on the switcher, but that's a much later lesson ;)). Take a look at the digram below to see where our cameras are located and what number is assigned:
**INSERT CHURCH DIAGRAM WITH CAMERAS**

Camera's 1, 2, and 3 are stationary cameras. They are mounted on tripods and are connected to the wall outlet for power. Camera 4 usually has no tripod. The person who works with this camera is able to freely roam around the sanctuary to get different shots. For this reason, we call that camera the roamer. Now, despite the ability to roam, the camera is not wireless. However, these wires are very long. It would be very difficult to both operate the camera and maintain the wires. For that reason, we usually have a team member assisting the roamer with their wires.

# Let's get started
Now that we got the logistics out of the way, let's explore the camera. From now on we'll be taking a look at camera 3. 
## The Tripod 
All of our stationary cameras are on tripods:
**INSERT PIC OF CAM 3**

It's vital that these tripods are level. If they are uneven, then our shot will look uneven:
**LEVEL vs UNLEVEL IMAGE**

Each of the 3 legs on the tripod is adjustable. We set the length to a point where it's tall enough for us to easy reach the camera and level. In fact, our tripods have a level bubble located just above the legs:
**INSERT VID/GIF OF ADJUSTING LEGS**
**INSERT IMAGE OF LEVEL WHEEL**

Now that the camera is level, let's turn it on.
## Power
Before we turn the camera on, let's first make sure it's plugged in! For camera's 1, 2, and 3, there is a power cord that connects to the wall. Attached to this power cord is a batter charger. It is vital that we make sure that the charger is set to **CAMERA** mode, otherwise, it won't send power to the camera.
**INSERT IMAGE OF CAM 3 POWER**
**INSERT IMAGE OF CAM 3 CHARGER**

For camera 4, we use a battery so that we can roam. After we take it off the charger, we lock it into the camera and we can power on:
**INSERT IMAGE OF CAM WITH BATTERY**

Ok, _now_ let's actually turn on the camera! On the back right side of the camera, there's a red dot. Ignore the red dot. Instead, there's a ring that surrounds the red dot. This ring indicates the current status of the camera. Let's switch it to on
**GIF POWER ON CAMERA**

Once on, we'll be able to see what the camera see using one of two ways. If we look through the viewfinder, we'll see the shot being capture. The more practical option is to use the built in screen that comes with the camera