<!-- TITLE: 102 - How do I use this camera? -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Step 1: Power On, Step 2: Have fun! -->
[Back to training](/video/training)

Now that we got the logistics out of the way, let's explore the camera. From now on we'll be taking a look at camera 3. 
# The Tripod 
All of our stationary cameras are on tripods:
**INSERT PIC OF CAM 3**

It's vital that these tripods are level. If they are uneven, then our shot will look uneven:
**LEVEL vs UNLEVEL IMAGE**

Each of the 3 legs on the tripod is adjustable. We set the length to a point where it's tall enough for us to easy reach the camera and level. In fact, our tripods have a level bubble located just above the legs:
**INSERT VID/GIF OF ADJUSTING LEGS**
**INSERT IMAGE OF LEVEL WHEEL**

Now that the camera is level, let's turn it on.
# The Power
Before we turn the camera on, let's first make sure it's plugged in! For camera's 1, 2, and 3, there is a power cord that connects to the wall. Attached to this power cord is a batter charger. It is vital that we make sure that the charger is set to **CAMERA** mode, otherwise, it won't send power to the camera.
**INSERT IMAGE OF CAM 3 POWER**
**INSERT IMAGE OF CAM 3 POWER SUPPLY**

For camera 4, we use a battery so that we can roam. After we take it off the charger, we lock it into the camera and we can power on:
**INSERT IMAGE OF CAM WITH BATTERY**

Ok, _now_ let's actually turn on the camera! On the back right side of the camera, there's a red dot. Ignore the red dot. Instead, there's a ring that surrounds the red dot. This ring indicates the current status of the camera. Let's switch it to on
**GIF POWER ON CAMERA**

# The View
Once on, we'll be able to see what the camera see using one of two ways. If we look through the viewfinder, we'll see the shot being captured.
**GIF VIEWFINDER**

The more practical option is to use the built in screen that comes with the camera. At the top of the camera is a rectangular item located near the front. We simply unfold it to the left, and then rotate the screen towards us. It'll show us exactly what the camera sees (without having to peek through the viewfinder)
**GIF OF SCREEN**
*Note: when the screen is opened and on, the view finder is turned off*

---

<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/video/training-pages/103">Next: Zoom</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>