<!-- TITLE: 103 - Movement -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: ALWAYS moving..... always... -->

[Back to training](/video/training)

# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Pan | Movement of the camera and image from side to side |
| Tilt | Movement of the camear and image from top to bottom or bottom to top |
| Tight | An image that appears as if the camera is very close to the subject. It tries to capture the smallest details |
| Wide | An image that appears as if the camera is very far from the subject. It tries to capture as much as possible |
| Zoom | Magnification of the image between a wide and tight shot |
| Zoom In | The act of moving from a wide shot to a tight shot |
| Zoom out | The act of moving from a tight shot to a wide shot |
| Focus | The clarity (blurriness) of an image |
| In focus | A sharp image with clear details |
| Out of focus | A blurry image that lacks clear details |
# Tripod
By design, the tripod is mean to remove the worry of tired arms and shaky hands. Our tripods are a little more advanaced. While they definitely keep the camera level and steady, they also provide other functionalities. There is a handle that protrudes from the top of the tripod. It is located just below the camera, but above the legs:
**INSERT IMAGE OF HANDLE**

We use this handle for 2 primary functions: pan / tilt and zoom.
## Pan / Tilt
Panning and tilting the camera are every-service actions for our team. We use the handle indicated above to perform these actions. The most important thing, however, is that our camera's movement is _smooth_ whenever it is live on screen. Let's take a look at the following video and see an example of a smooth pan vs a rough pan:
**INSERT YOUTUBE VIDEO OF SMOOTH VS ROUGH (FROM CAM 3)**

It's pretty easy to see which shot looked better. How could this have happened though? There is one possibility. Maybe the tripod was too tight? Maybe it was too loose? We have the capability of modifiying how much effort we need to put in to pan and tilt. The best part is that it **doesn't** have any effect on the level-ness of the camera!. On the physical tripod, there are 2 knobs. One controls pan and the other controls tilt. When we twist one direction, it becomes easier to move the camera. When we twist another, it becomes harder:
**INSERT GIF ADJUSTING CAM PAN** **INSERT GIF ADJUSTING CAM TILT**

There is no standard tightness that we need to adhere to. As long as the camera moves smoothly, we can set it at what we like!
## Zoom
There are many ways to zoom in and out on our camera. Not-so-coincidentally, the most used method of zooming exists on our tripod. Located on our tripod handle, there is a piece that surrounds the handle. It is not in a fixed position. In fact, it can rotate slighly. When we rotate clockwise (to the right), our camera will zoom in. When we rotate counter clockwise (to the left), our camera will zoom out: 
**INSERT GIF OF ZOOM**

The camera will actually zoom at different speeds based off of how hard the handle is twisted! This is useful for many parts of service because our team tends to zoom at different speeds (depending on the section of service). There is one last knob on the handle that affects zoom. Located at the center, it actually adjusts the maximum speed of the zoom on our handle. Rotate it clockwise and the speed of our zoom when we twist the handle all the way is faster. The opposite happens when we rotate the knob counter clockwise.
**INSERT ZOOM SPEED KNOB**
# Zoom
While our tripod handle has everything we need for movement, there are otherways to handle zoom on the camera. We can use any of them at any time. They become particularly useful when we operate the roaming camera.
## Power Zoom Lever
Just above the camera's power switch, on the right side, there is a lever that can be pushed down on two sides: the front and back. When the front is pushed down, the camera zooms in. When the back is pushed down, the camera zooms out. The speed at which the camera zooms depends entirely on how hard the lever is pushed. If pushed down all the way, the camera will zoom at it's highest speed. If barely pushed, the camera will move at a speed that is nearly unnoticeable.
**INSERT ZOOM LEVER**
## Handle Zoom
At the very top of the camera, on the handle, there is a smaller version of the power zoom lever. This zoom control has 2 settings: _Variable_ and _Fixed_. On the left side of this handle there is a swtich. It will switch the zoom mode between VAR (variable) and FIX (fixed). When set to variable zoom, this control acts exactly like the zoom control lever. however, it is a little harder to control exact speed, given that thte lever is much smaller. When set to fixed, the zoom control will zoom at a fixed speed (specified in the camera settings) no matter how hard it's pressed.
**INSERT HANDLE ZOOM**
## Zoom Ring
The last way to zoom on this camera is much less "automatic." At the front of the camera, there are 3 rings. The middle ring is the zoom ring. If rotated clockwise, the camera will zoom in. If rotate counter clockwise, the camera will zoom out. This method is considered much less "automatic" because the camera will only zoom as long as the ring is in motion. The faster the ring moves, the faster the camera zooms. The same is true for slower. 
**INSERT HANDLE ZOOM**
# Focus
Let's not leave the area of the zoom ring just yet. The ring in front of the camera controls focus. There are 2 settings we can use for the focus: automatic and manual. When set to manual, we can adjust the focus ring to modify the focus. We can't establish an absolute rule about which way to twist the focus ring to get a sharp image because it varies for different zoom distances and camera distances from the subject. The best practice is to take the image out of focus (in either direction) and slowly bring it in focus until it's perfect.
**INSERT GIF ROTATE OUT OF FOCUS TO IN**

On the left side of the camera there are a bunch of buttons. Each one has it's own purpose, but for now let's look at the section labelled **FOCUS**. 
**INSERT GIF OF CAM FOCUS MENU**

Below the word focus there is a switch. When set to AUTO, the camera will automatically attempt to focus the image so that it's as sharp as possible. When set to MAN, we have control over manual focus. Below MAN, is a section called "infinity". When zoomed all the way in, the camera will attempt to focus on an object in the distance (even if one is closer) when the switch is slid downward. Lastly, there exists the PUSH AUTO button. When in manual mode, the camera will attempt a quick autofocus when the PUSH AUTO button is pressed.

Now, why would somebody want to use manual focus? Well, the camera operates similarly to the human eye. Human's take in light through their eyes and our brains turn it into images. Cameras do the exact same thing with glass lenses and internal computers. Both human eyes and camera lenses adhere to a concept call depth-of-field. Basically, there is a specific range of distance that we can focus at one time. When looking down the road, everything is pretty much in focus. Human brains have the ability to create a very large depth of field. Let's shrink it though with a small experiment!! Let's take our pointer finger and touch our forehead. Now, let's slowly move our finger away from our forehead. We need to look only at the finger as it moves. After a few inches, our fingers will come into focus. However, as our finger has come into focus, everything around it has gotten blurry. That's because as things get closer to the human eye, our depth-of-field shrinks. In this instance, we could only focus on items a couple inches away. Cameras operate in a similar fashion, however, they start off with a much smaller depth of field that the human eye. As we zoom in, it shrinks even more. When a camera is set to auto and zoomed in, it will sometimes try and pick the wrong subject to focus on simply because its depth of field is not large enough to capture everything. In this scenario, we need to keep the camera on manual to maintain the sharpness of the subject.

---

Movement done, next we take the journey down the road of Composition
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/video/training-pages/104">Next: Iris / Gain</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>