<!-- TITLE: 104 - Brightness -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Light can be our best friend... or worst enemy -->

[Back to training](/video/training)
# Key Terms
| Term | Defintion |
| --- | --- |
| Iris | Controls how much light gets into the camera |
| Washed out | An image that gets overloaded with too much light, causing white to bleed everywhere and changing bright colors to white |
| Frame rate (fps) | The number of images the camera captures per second |
| Shutter speed | The length of time a each frame is exposed for |
| Exposure | The camera's sensitivity to light |
| Auto Exposure (AE) shift | A shift in the exposure sensor of the camera |
| Gain | Artificial image brightness adjustment |

# Iris
As we mentioned in the last article, cameras operate by letting light in and turning it into images through lenses and internal computers. As humans, when there's too much light, we usually close our eyes or squint to limit the light entering our eyes. Cameras do not have that luxury. Instead, they will take in all the light and try and interpret it. Usually that will leave us with a washed out image:
**INSERT WASHED OUT IMAGE**

On the flip side, when there is too little light, our camera will attempt to gather whatever light it can and formulate an image. That image though, will usually be very dark and unclear. In fact, the camera may even have a hard time focusing (if in autofocus mode).
**INSERT DARK IMAGE**

In order to solve this, camera makers stole another idea from the human eye. As humans we have what's called an iris. The job of the iris is to control how much light gets into the eye. When we enter a dark room, our irises open to attempt to take in any light possible. When we go outside during the day, our irises will close because it is much brighter than indoors. Our cameras have an iris that works the exact same way. 

**INSERT IRIS RING**
If we venture to the front of the camera, we mentioned that there are 3 rings. When know the first two (focus and zoom). The last remaining ring belongs to iris. When we open up the iris of the camera (rotate counter clockwise), the camera will take in more light and the image will be brighter. When we close the iris, less light enters the camera and the image gets darker. It is our job to make sure that the image looks as real as possible. This means that at different angles and distances the iris will be different. On the camera, there is a measurement denoting the current iris. It is on the lower left corner of the screen deonted by **F##**. When the number increases, the iris will close. When the number decrease, the iris will open.
**INSERT IRIS ON SCREEN**

*Note: Our cameras have an auto iris function. We don't use it though. Since our room is darker in some areas than others, the camera will be constantly trying to adjust iris. That will affect how the image looks at any given momen*

# Shutter speed
It's pretty easy to think that a camera is constantly recording every movement on screen. However, that is _not_ what's actually happening. In reality, the camera is a large number of pictures per second. As defined above, this is our camera's frame rate. Frame rate is a standard concept. Our cameras don't allow for frame rate to change. Shutter speed, though, can change at our will. It will have an effect on the quality of the shot, so it needs to be considered. The number that represents shutter speed is a measurement of time. A shutter spead of 10 will leave shutter spead open for 1/10th of a second. When the shutter speed is slower (number is smaller), the camera will leave the shutter open for a longer period of time. This will cause the camera to take in more light and look brighter. Also, since the camera is letting light in for more time than the frame rate, the camera will start blending frames together and it will look choppy:
**INSERT GIF SHUTTER SPEED LOW**
When the shutter speed is high, less light gets in. The shot will be darker, but remain smooth:
**INSERT GIF SHUTTER SPEED HIGH**

On our cameras, when the shutter speed button is pressed, a number appears on the bottom center of the screen. It can be adjusted by rotating the wheel on the left side of the camera. Since the frame rate of our cameras is 60 fps, it's best to keep our shutter speed at 60:
**INSERT GIF ADJUSTING SHUTTER SPEED**
# AE Shift
When the exposure on the camera is set to auto, the camera attempts to correct the sensitivity to the light coming in. Sometimes, it needs a little bit of help. We can adjust the automatic exposure sensor on our cameras within the range of +7 and -7. This basically forces the exposure to be raised or lowered. It will, however, negatively affect the quality of the shot, so we normally keep AE Shift off.
# Gain
The last line of defense for a bright or dark shot is gain. Gain is entirely artificial. There is no physical movement of a lense or adjustment of a sensor. When we raise the gain, the camera will get brighter. However, since the adjustment is artificial, it will also get noisier. What does that mean? Well, a noisy image looks like some pink and blue "salt and pepper" flakes were inserted into the image. Every image contains some residue of noise. This happens due to the physics behind how electricity travels from the lens to the camera's brain. It's an unfortunate reality we have to deal with. When we adjust the gain, these noisy flakes become much more apparent and distracting. 
**INSERT NOISY IMAGE**
Therefore, we attempt to keep the gain as low as possible and never on auto.

---

At this point, we've done it. Adjusting these settings so they're in the right range will make the camera look _more_ natural. The next thing we need to focus on is color!