<!-- TITLE: 105 - Color -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Warm it up! Wait, cool it down! Actually, warmer is better, but not too hot -->

# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Warm | An adjustment to the image that introduces orange hues |
| Cool | An adjustment to the image that introduces blue hues |
| Color Temperature | A measurement of how warm or cool the camera makes the image |

# White Balance
The color of light plays a huge role in how a camera looks. As humans, our brains do a lot of work to create a clean high quality image from the light that we take in. The cameras, however, simply cannot match the ability of the human brain. This explains why a picture taken indoors may seem warm or "orange-y", while a picture taken in the middle of the day may seem cooler or "blue-ish." 
**INSERT ORANGE AND BLUE IMAGES**
Our cameras have the ability to adjust for the color of the light coming into the camera. This adjustment, though, isn't drastic. The camera will not change pink to green. Instead, it can simply warm up or cool down the image to counteract the opposite effect. This is what we refer to with white balancing. White balance is measured in a metric called Kelvin (denoted by **K**). It works intuitively. When we increase the color temperature, the image will get warmer. When we lower, it will get cooloer. For example, let's take a look at the image below and see how different lighting scenarios can affect the white balance we need:
| Image | Location | White Balance |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **PARK DURING THE DAY ** | Some park | _5600K_? |
| **PARK AT SUNSET** | Some park | _2800K_? |
| **INDOOR IMAGE** | Justn's House | _4400K_? |
| **INDOOR IMAGE** | Mel's Office | _4000K_? |

# How about us?
Ok, now that we're done with that side tangent, let's get to what this means for us. Our lighting system is made up of tungsten colored lights and LED lights. The tungsten lights light up people from in front and the LEDs from behind. Our LED lights naturally emit a blue-ish hue that cameras tend to exaggerate. This makes it challenging to find the right white balance for our cameras at any specific time. When our LEDs are on, the entire image get's flooded with cool light so we need to raise the white blance. When they are off, we simply need to counteract the tungsten lights on stage and cool down the image:
| Image | White balance |
| **INSERT WORSHIP IMAGE** | _6400K?_ |
| **INSERT SERMON IMAGE NO JUMPBACK** | 3200K |

# How do we do it?