<!-- TITLE: 201 - Rule of Thirds -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: Tic-tac-toe! 3 in a row won't win this game -->

[Back to training](/video/training)
# Key Terms
| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Headroom | The space between the top of the screen and the top of the subject |
| Off-center | Slightly moving the subject in a direction away from center |
# Rule of Thirds
Let's take a look at an image of Pastor Chris:
**INSERT PCD ON STAGE**
Now, let's split this image into 3 sections (twice):
**INSERT VETICAL THIRDS PCD**
**INSERT HORIZONTAL THIRDS PCD**
These lines actually help us frame our images. Let's start by examining the vertical ones. Whenever our subject is facing towards the camera, we keep them directly in between both vertical ones. When our subject is facing a different angle, we off-center them in the image. The larger the angle, the further we move from center. It's easier to illustrate this, so let's compare some images:
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND LEFT THIRD) FORM CAM 1**
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND RIGHT THIRD) FORM CAM 3**
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND RIGHT THIRD) FORM CAM 4**
In all the examples we offset Pastor Chris in the image so that it looks more natural. 

We will utilize a similar concept for vertical placement on the screen. Using our 3 horizontal lines, let us look at a few images:
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND TOP THIRD) FORM CAM 2**
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND BOTTOM THIRD) FORM CAM 3**
These are probably a little easier to critique than the horizontally position images. Before we continue though, let's introduce a concept that goes hand-in-hand with vertical alignment. It is called "headroom." Headroom ferers to the space between the top of thes creen and the top of our subject. We musn't have too little space, or we risk cutting of our subject. We mustn't have too much because it can appear as if the subject is "falling" off the bottom of the screen. 

So how do we know what makes an image look good? Well let's go back to the lines we drew on top of Pastor Chris. In order to truly understand their efficacy, we are going to combine them into one image:
**INSERT TIC-TAC-TOE THIRDS PCD**
After the combination, we have now created a tic-tac-toe board. There are 4 interesting locations on this tic-tac-toe board (where any two lines intersect). What makes these points interesting? Well, naturally the human eye is draw to the center of an image. When we off-center an image, we make it feel more interesting and (sometimes) more natural. If we use these intersection points as a guide, we'll be sure to create a high quality shot. For instance, let's use Pastor Chris as an example again. At any angle, if we place his eyes near the apporpriate intersection point, our image will look better than otherwise:
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND TicTacToe) FORM CAM 1**
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND TicTacToe) FORM CAM 2**
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND TicTacToe) FORM CAM 3**
**INSERT 2 IMAGES (CENTERED AND TicTacToe) FORM CAM 4**

As long as we follow these basic rules, there's little chance that we'll go wrong when deciding how to position the subject in our image.

---

Let's keep going and begin to think about how motion fits into all of this!
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="/video/training-pages/202">Next: Movement</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</div>